Analysis of Figures A-D:


In Figure A, the authors analyzed a pool of cells that have been assayed on the Chromium 10X platform, but prepared using different protocols: 3′ end v1 (3pV1), 3′ end v2 (3pV2), or 5′ end (5p) chemistries. Then, quantitative data regarding gene expression in the cells was used to group cells following dimensionality reduction and clustering. The authors used the geometric primitive of points to represent the different cells in the combined pool, and they used the visual channel of hue to represent the different protocols used to prepare cells. The visual channel of position along the UMAP1 and UMAP2 axes was used to encode the relative locations of cells with respect to one another in the reduced dimensional space, based on how similar they are with respect to gene expression. I think the authors did an excellent job of getting across the point that prior to integration, cells groups according to the protocol they were prepared with because we clearly see that cells with the same color (i.e., protocol) are adjacent or nearby to one another. One way the authors could improve the salience of this point is by utilizing the Gestalt principle of enclosure and circling the distinct cell groupings to clearly indicate that there are particular groupings of cells based on the protocol used for preparation.

In Figure B, the authors analyzed the same pool of cells from before following Harmony integration. As before, quantitative data regarding gene expression in the cells was used to group cells following dimensionality reduction and clustering. The authors used the geometric primitive of points to represent the different cells being studied. Again, the visual channel of hue was used to represent the different protocols used to prepare cells, and the visual channel of position along the UMAP1/2 axes relayed the relative locations of cells in the reduced dimensional space, following dimensionality reduction. The authors were fairly effective in showing that following the Harmony integration protocol, the effects of protocols on cells was removed, allowing cells to cluster in a protocol-independent manner, as seen by the mixing of cells of different colors (i.e., cells prepared using different protocols). One way the authors could improve the salience of this claim is by changing the color scheme used to represent the different protocols. Due to the relative opacity of the hues, even when cells of different protocol are near one another, they can appear as being the same color. As such, I recommend using a red, blue, and yellow palette to represent the different protocols, so when cells of different protocols are near one another, it becomes obvious.

In Figure C, the authors divorced the data sets from one another (following Harmony integration), and within each data set, they utilized the expression of canonical gene markers (quantitative data) to identify unique cell clusters. The authors used the geometric primitive of points to represent clusters of cells in a particular dataset expressing a specific canonical marker. In addition, the authors used the visual channel of hue to represent the different protocols used to prepare cells (i.e., color was used to discriminate between cells from different datasets). The visual channel of size was used to represent the percentage of cells in a particular dataset expressing a canonical marker that can be equated with a cell-type (T-cell, B-cell, etc.). The authors were able to adequately demonstrate that once datasets are separated from the combined pool (following Harmony integration protocol), they are still able to identify specific cell clusters within each dataset, corresponding to a particular cell-type. This can be seen by the fact that particular canonical markers appear to be enriched together, perhaps due to only particular cell-types expressing these genes together. However, one way in which this point can be made more saliently is instead of using size of the points to encode the percentage of cells within a dataset expressing a particular canonical marker, I believe the authors should have used length (perhaps in the form of bar plots) to encode this information. The visual channel of length allows for facile perception of differences in gene expression than the channel of size.

In Figure D, the authors demonstrated that the clusters that form after Harmony integration are driven by similarity in cell-type, rather than by protocol (as seen in the before integration case—figure A). Specifically, the author used quantitative data from Figure C to classify each cell in the combined pool (i.e., cells from all three data sets) as a particular cell type based on the degrees to which they express particular canonical markers. The geometric primitive of points was employed to represent the different cells in the combined pool. Furthermore, the visual channel of hue was used to encode cell-type of each cell, and the visual channel of position along the UMAP1 and UMAP2 axes was used to encode the relative locations of cells with respect to one another in the reduced dimensional space, based on how similar they are in terms of gene expression. Overall, the authors effectively showed through this figure is that following Harmony integration, cells cluster with respect to cell-type rather than protocol. One way I believe this point could be made more saliently is by using a different color palette than the one used to represent protocols, which may be a source of confusion for the audience. Specifically, the orange, green, and purple colors, which had been used to represent protocol, now represent cell-type. Therefore, I suggest using an entirely new color palette, given the hundreds at our disposal, to encode cell-type.

