Data Visualization Evaluations

Figure 4a

In figure 4a, the data is relational data. The graph shows the relationship between gene expression of peripheral blood mononuclear cells reduced to two dimensions via UMAP (quantitative data) and the protocols with which the cells were prepared (categorical data).

The geometric primitive used is a point. Each point represents one cell. 

The authors use the visual channels of position and color, specifically hue. The positions on the x-axis and y-axis indicate the values of the two UMAP features. A different hue is assigned to each of the protocols for assaying the cells. The cells are colored orange for 5', purple for 3' V1, and green for 3' V2. 

Through the data visualization, the authors were effective at communicating that the features from dimensionality reduction capture variation from the data that corresponds to the classes labeled with different hues. None of the groupings of points have points with different hues mixed together. However, the data visualization does not make salient that the points are cells nor that the hues are protocols. This information is communicated by the figure caption.

Together the visualization and figure caption show that cells are grouped by protocol, but not solely based on protocol variation. Each protocol has multiple groups and the positions of the groups do not seem tied to the protocols. I am not sure if I agree with the authors' statement from the text that "before integration, cells group primarily by [protocol]." The UMAP features do capture variation due to protocol, but I would simply state that protocol variation is present, not primary. While I am unsure that the data can support that the "cells group primarily by [protocol]", I do not think that specificity is necessary to prove the value of the authors' tool. The authors' communicate the important part of the point more effectively in the figure caption, which states "before integration, cells group by dataset."

One change that could enhance saliency of the authors' point that cells are grouped by protocol or dataset could be to have a legend for the hues with the title "Protocols" or "Datasets". Currently, the explanation that 5', 3'V1, and 3'V2 are protocols is conveyed in the figure caption, but it could be included in the figure itself. Another option could be to change the title of the graph from "Before Integration" to "Before Integration Cells Group by Datasets." Changing the title would also make more salient that the points on the plot represent cells.

Figure 4b

In figure 4b, the data is relational data. The graph shows the relationship between gene expression of PBMCs processed with Harmony integration and reduced to two dimensions via UMAP (quantitative data) and the protocols with which the cells were prepared (categorical data).

Points are the chosen geometric primitive with each point representing one cell. 

The visual channels employed are position and hue. The values of the two UMAP features are encoded as positions on the two axes. The different protocols are visualized as  different hues such that the cells are colored orange for 5', purple for 3' V1, and green for 3' V2. 

The authors were effective in making part of their point salient through the data visualization. The authors were successful in communicating "mixed together" or "well mixed". It is clear that points with different hues are positioned near each other. No group is exclusively one hue. 

However, the visualization does not make salient that "[Our tool] Harmony ... removed [protocol]-specific [technical] variation withing each cluster". The graph is titled "After Harmony integration", but it does not really communicate that removal of protocol specific variation took place. On its own, figure 4b shows that the points are not grouped by hue, but it does not specify in the visualization that the hues represent distinct protocols. Also, independently figure 4b does not show that these points were ever grouped by hue or protocol in the past. Furthermore, it is not apparent from figure 4a and figure 4b that the points in both visualizations are the same cells.

I do not have a suggestion on how to enhance saliency of the data visualization regarding demonstrating that the protocol specific variation was removed. It is difficult to communicated the passage of time in a data visualization. These types of visualizations are usually snapshots of the destination rather than the journey. I think that point could be communicated through some other type of graphic showing the change in the data at the tabular level before dimensionality reduction via UMAP. Nonetheless, I would change the title of figure 4b from "After Harmony Integration" to "After Harmony Integration, Cells Do Not Group by Datasets" to make more salient that the that the points on the plot represent cells and hues indicated datasets.

Figure 4c

Figure 4c visualizes relational data. The table shows the relationship between quantitative data and three types of categorical data. The quantitative data portrayed is the percentage of cells expressing each canonical gene. The three categories are: 1) three datasets assayed using different protocols, 2) six clusters from clustering analysis, and 3) six subtypes of cells. 

The geometric primitive used is area. 

One visual channel used is size. The size of the round areas encodes the percentage of cells expressing a gene. The radius of the area increases with the percentage.  Another visual channel that is used is color. The visualization uses two sets of hues. There is some overlap of hues used but the hues encode different things in each set. One set of hues is purple, green, and orange. This set indicates the datasets from which the cells originated. The areas are colored purple for 3' V1, green for 3' V2, and orange for 5'. The second set of hues is orange, darker orange, red, green, blue, and gold.  The orange and green are repeated hues from the first set.  Hues in the second set correspond to six of the fourteen clusters that are identified via clustering analysis. I think these hues are included in this visualization to evoke the clusters at the point that they have not yet been labeled with cell subtypes. Lastly, saturation seems to be used as a visual channel to encode percentage of cells expressing a gene, supplementary to the size encoding.  It is subtle, but as the percentage decreases the color of the area gets grayer. 

With this data visualization, I do not think the authors were effective in making the following point salient: "[Harmony] clustered the cells into biologically coherent groups [corresponding to known cell-types and are consistent with the expression of the expected canonical marker genes]". What I think the data visualization does effectively is show how the canonical marker genes are differentially expressed in the known cell types. I think the data visualization struggles to show how the differential gene expression relates to the clusters. It is not clear that the expression of the cell type specific marker genes is used to take unlabeled clusters and add cell type labels to show that the clusters are biologically coherent.

To improve the saliency of the data visualization, I would include a UMAP plot that introduces the six hue color scheme that is suppposed to represent six of the clusters. As it stands, the six hues have not been associated with the clusters and are only introduced as colored rectangular areas. Looking ahead, I would provide a version of figure 4d that has the colored clusters but no cell type labels before the reader gets to figure 4c. Another avenue to enhance saliency is to concatentate the three datasets with different protocols. The variation between datasets is not necessary for the point that the authors want to convey. I think that because the variation between expression across datasets is so small, it's inclusion is actually distracting. The viewer's eye is drawn to the similarity of the size of the areas and tries to derive insights about the datasets even though that is not the main point of the visualization. The repetition of the cell subtype names is distracting in a similar way and can also be removed by concatenating the three datasets.



