Paper url: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0092867416310078?via%3Dihub
Figure: Figure 1: Clustering of Bipolar Cells by Drop-Seq
Writeup: 

	In this paper by Shekhar et al. (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2016.07.054), I reviewed Figure 1: Clustering of Bipolar Cells by Drop-Seq. 
	The purpose of this overall study was to use single-cell transcriptomics to identify distinct cell populations within the broader category of retinal bipolar neurons. Ultimately, by identifying different subpopulations within retinal bipolar neurons (a specific type of interneuron), the researchers hope this knowledge can further benefit the treatment of retinal diseases. 
	To accomplish their goal of identifying different types of retinal bipolar neurons, the researchers first collected retina samples from Vsx2-GFP mice. Vsx2 is a gene specifically expressed by bipolar neurons, and using FACS, the researchers were able to sort out the GFP+ bipolar neurons (figures 1A-B). Then, the researchers used Drop-Seq to isolate single cells in oil droplets and tag them using barcodes, before performing transcriptional analysis of each cell.  Next, PCA was used to separate cells into clusters and identify cluster-specific markers (figure 1B). However, due to the difficulty in the creation of specific cell clusters in PC-space, the researchers applied nonlinear dimensional reduction (tSNE), to visualize the bipolar neurons in 2D-space (figures 1C-E). Next, Shekhar et al. used both Louvain-Jaccard and Infomap algorithms to cluster cells according to transcriptional similarity, within the tSNE embedding space (figures 1C-E). After identification of these distinct cell clusters, the researchers were able to identify specific expressed markers in each subpopulation of bipolar neurons, e.g., ON cone bipolar neurons and OFF cone bipolar neurons, (figures 1F-G).
	In representing their findings, the researchers used a schematic to show how bipolar neurons were collected (from retina samples taken from Vsx2-GFP mice) and separated using FACS (figures 1A-B). The researchers used the geometric primitive of points to represent bipolar neurons in this schematic, and the visual channel of color (specifically hue) to represent GFP+ cells (green) and non-GFP+ cells (orange). Furthermore, when representing the results of their tSNE analysis, the researchers used the geometric primitive of points to represent the bipolar neurons and the visual channel of hue to identify the different cell clusters, as indicated by Louvain-Jaccard and Infomap algorithms (figures 1C-E). Next, when representing the different gene markers upregulated in each subpopulation of bipolar neurons, the researchers used the visual channel of color (specifically hue) to represent the degree of expression of a particular gene (on average) in each cell cluster and the visual channel of size to represent the number of cells (bipolar neurons) expressing a particular gene in a cluster (figure F). Finally, Shekhar et al. utilized a dendrogram to show how the absence or presence of different bipolar markers gives rise to distinct subpopulations of retinal bipolar neurons (figure G).
	Overall, I believe the authors were quite effective in demonstrating, start to finish, how they were able to identify specific types of retinal bipolar neurons. It is quite clear that there are indeed distinct subpopulations of bipolar neurons (from the cell clustering analysis, 1C-E), based on the appropriate use of the Gestalt principles of color and proximity. Furthermore, it is also evident that these bipolar neuron subpopulations express varying genetic markers to different extents (1F-G), based on the excellent use of the visual channels of color and size.
	However, one way I think this data visualization could be improved is if figure 1F was broken up into two separate figures, because in this figure, the researchers are trying to show both which bipolar neuron markers are widely expressed in each cell cluster (using the visual channel of size of points to represent the percent of cells within a cluster expressing a marker) and how much each bipolar neuron marker is expressed in each cell (on average) within a cell cluster (using the visual channel of color of the point). Although, the visual channels of color and size are not conflicting, in this case, perhaps separating this information would make the results more poignant because it is easier to pick out each trend when displayed separately.
	In conclusion, I think the researchers did well in displaying their overall experimental paradigm and findings, with respect to novel classes of retinal bipolar neurons.
