Paper url: https://www.cell.com/cell/pdf/S0092-8674(20)30815-1.pdf
Figure: Figure 1
Writeup: 


The authors state that in Alzheimers disease around amyloid plaques can be marked by marked inflammation. For the most part, it seems that the molecular processes underlying these phenotypes are unknown. Since we may be able to gain some insight on these cell behaviors using spatial transcriptomics, the authors of the study use the VISIUM technology to section and obtain targeted transcriptomes using the technology by "Spatial Transcriptomics" company in Stockholm, which is now part of 10x Genomics. Since cells directly around beta amyloid plaques that we see in Alzheimers disease may have unique transcriptional phenotypes that might give us some insight on disease progression, it could be very helpful if we can retain that spatial information, hence motivating spatial transcriptomics. 

They took sequential 10um sections of regions in the mouse brain surrounding amyloid plaques and subjected them to VISIUM spatial transcriptomics. Their samples consisted of sections from both WT mice and AppNL-G-F mice, which is their mouse model of AD. The sampled at 3, 6, 12 and 18 months of age for each genotype. 

In figure 1A, they are visualizing their experimental design, as well as a general timeline of AD progression in their AD mice. They use the geometric primitive of areas to demonstrate each AD progression stage in their mouse model, and they use the visual channel of colors to highlight these phases. This part of the figure is just to show how they collected their data and what techniques they are subjecting their tissue to. They also make a nice visual of how they sampled sections for regular immunofluorescence and for VISIUM. It is very clear that their middle section was used for VISIUM and their outer sections were used for regular immunostaining. They use the geometric primitive of lines to guide the viewers eyes to understand which sections were used for which experiment. They also use the visual channel of color to differentiate the spatial transcriptomics sections and the immunostaining sections.   

The real meat of this figure is in Fig 1B, C and D. In part B, they mapped their tissue to brain regions determined by Allen Mouse Brain Atlas, and they colored this brain diagram by brain region. They use the visual channel of colors to show different brain areas, which is also encoded by the geometric primitive of areas. In part C, they are visualizing quantitative data of gene expression for each spot from the VISIUM experiment. They use the geometric primitive of points to denote each spot, and these aggregate into areas in the tSNE plot. They use the visual channel of color to color each population of cells by their mapped area to the Allen Mouse Brain Atlas. 

The authors found that on tSNE space, their cells cluster by anatomical region of the brain, giving confidence that spatial transcriptomics can be used to discern cells in different regions of the brain. They do a pretty good job in my opinion, as it can be clearly seen that the cell populations are separating in 2d space. The one suggestion I would give here is to probably split the colors on the tSNE into two plots, so that it might be easier to visualize. 

In figure 1D, they use the same tSNE as in 1C, but color the cell populations by age and genotype. They use the geometric primitives of points which aggregate into areas to denote cell populations, and they use color to highlight genotype/age combinations. They find that the WT and AD brain cells are mostly separated here, and more separation can be seen as the mice get older. The colors in this image are somewhat hard to distinguish, since the cell populations are close to each other. I would again suggest to split this into two images, just to aid with the visual channel. They found that 12 AND 18 month old WT mice have cell populations that overlap, whereas they don't see the same overlap between 12 and 18 month AD cells, highlighting a divergence in transcription during this time progression. Although they say this, it may not be very visible to some viewers, as the cell populations for the AD 12M AND 18M are still in close proximity, but separated. This could be improved by doing a sub clustering on just these cells and assess the level of overlap in low dimensional space.  

Overall, the authors do a decent job at their visualization. The main improvement that can be made is to reduce the number of colors in each tSNE plot, or split each tSNE them into two separate plots to aid the viewers visual channel. What is effective about this figure is that it is relatively small, and conveys the main point quite well, which is that cell populations segregate by area and genotype/age combinations in tSNE space. Figure 1B is related to 1C by the gestalt principle of similarity, as the brain areas that correspond to each cell population are colored the same. Overall they did a good job!

