Paper url: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-26614-z
Figure: Figure 4
Writeup: 
1. The authors want to understand how tumor interact with nearby environment. They try to characterize tumor-microenvironment interactions at the boundary between tumor and normal tissue. 
2. The authors use zebrafish with melanoma as a model to study this. They use spatially resolved transcriptomics to identify a group of cells in the interface between tumor and normal tissue, and they try to understand the regulation of gene expression in those special cell types. 
3. With snRNA-Seq and scRNA-Seq, the authors found that the cells at the interface of tumor and normal tissue are distinct from other cells. The authors identified 2 custer of cells to be interface cells and they have found some genes that are differentially upregulated or downregulated in the clusters. 
4. In Figure A, the authors visualize the snRNA-Seq data by reducing it two 2 dimensions with UMAP. The position is used to encode the UMAP 1 and 2 of cells, and the color (hue) visual channel is used to encode the cell type. The Gesalt principle of similarity and proximity are used. Cells in the same color are of a group and cells closer to each other are more likely to be preceived as a group, so we can clearly see the interface group by itself. 
In Figure B to D, the authors visualize different sequencing data by reducing them two 2 dimensions with UMAP. The position is used to encode the UMAP 1 and 2 of cells. The color (hue) visual channels are used to encode gene expression, , sequencing data type or clusters. With the Gesalt principle of similarity and proximity, we can see that cells closer to each other tend to have similar level of expression of marker genes. Cells in the interface group especially display certian marker genes. 
In figure E, the authors visualize the expression of cell type specific genes in the interface sub clusters. The color (hue and saturation) and area are used to encode the expression level of genes in different groups of cells. We can see tha t the interface display some similar expression levels of certain genes as the close form of cell types. 
In figure F, the authors visualize the expression of top 100 upregulated genes in interface clusters, the color (hue and saturation) display expression level of those genes. We can see that the interface have those specific genes highly expression wheras other clusters don't have those genes. The Gesalt principle of proximity is used as cells in different clusters are seperated with small spaces so we can see different groups. The Gesalt principle of similarity is used as cells in interface have similar color in gene expression wheras other cells have the other color, so this shows that those cells in interface have special upregulated genes. 
5. In figure B, the author effectively demonstrate that the cells in the interface group has some marker genes highly expressed wheras others do not. In figure C, the author effectively uses the Gesalt principle of enclosure to demonstrate that integrating two RNA Seq data still has the interface clusters together in an area, and we can perceive that although they are from two sequencing methods, they still belong to one group. In Figure F, the author effectively demonstrate that the interface clusters have highly expressed levels of marker genes with Gesalt Principle of Similarity. Cells in the interface cluster have those 100 genes highly expressed wheras the other groups do not. 
6. Figure B might benefit from using lines to mark the interface cluster, so that the audience more clearly see the grouping of interface vs non-interface cluster. The Gesalt principle of enclosure can more clearly mark cell groups so that we can see the interface cluster has highly expressed marker genes. 
Figure F can benefit from more explicitly separating the interface vs non-interface group with more spaces, so that the Gesalt principle of proximity can help us see more differences between interface vs non-interface cells. 